iOS 15 (#2300)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/ios_15.md

---
nav_title: iOS 15 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 7
platform: iOS
description: "This reference article covers the iOS 15 SDK update, highlighting changes such as geofences, location targeting, IDFA, and more."

---

# iOS 15 SDK Upgrade Guide

This guide outlines changes introduced in iOS 15 (WWDC21) and the required upgrade steps for your Braze iOS SDK integration.

For a complete list of new iOS 15 updates, see Apple's [iOS 15 Page](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-15/).

> {% alert info %}

Author: ```suggestion
{% alert important %}
```

> This is a working document and will evolve as Apple releases new Beta versions and information on upcoming changes.

Author: ```suggestion
This is a working document and will evolve as Apple releases new Beta versions and information on upcoming changes.
```

---
nav_title: iOS 15 Upgrade Guide
page_order: 7
platform: iOS
description: "This reference article covers the new iOS 15 OS updates, required SDK updates, and new features."

---

# iOS 15 SDK Upgrade Guide

This guide outlines changes introduced in iOS 15 (WWDC21) and the required upgrade steps for your Braze iOS SDK integration.

> For a complete list of new iOS 15 updates, see Apple's [iOS 15 Page](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-15/).

{% alert important %}

> This is a working document and will evolve as Apple releases new Beta versions and information on their upcoming changes.

Reviewer: Consistent with `beta` in other parts of the article
```suggestion
This is a working document and will evolve as Apple releases new beta versions and information on their upcoming changes.
```

{% endalert %}

# iOS 15 Changes

## Transparency Changes to UI Navigations

> As part of our annual testing of iOS betas, we have identified a change made by Apple which causes certain UI navigation bars to appear transparent instead of opaque. This will be visible when using Braze’s default UI for Content Cards or News Feed, or when web deep links are opened inside your app and not in a separate browser app.

Reviewer: Porting the sentence from the Google doc
```suggestion
As part of our annual testing of iOS betas, we have identified a change made by Apple which causes certain UI navigation bars to appear transparent instead of opaque. This will be visible on iOS 15 when using Braze’s default UI for Content Cards or News Feed, or when web deep links are opened inside your app instead of in a separate browser app.
```

We strongly recommend you upgrade to the [Braze iOS SDK v4.3.2][1] as soon as possible, before users begin to upgrade their phones to iOS 15.

## New Notification Settings {#notification-settings}

> iOS 15 introduced new notification features to help users stay focused and avoid frequent interruptions throughout the day.

Author: ```suggestion
iOS 15 introduced new notification features to help users stay focused and avoid frequent interruptions throughout the day.

We're excited to offer support for these new features - stay tuned for more information to be announced near iOS 15's official release!
```

We're excited to offer support for these new features - stay tuned for more information to be announced near iOS 15's official release!

### Focus Modes {#focus-mode}

iOS 15 users can now create "Focus Modes" - custom profiles used to determine which notifications they want to __break through__ their focus and display prominently.

![Focus Settings]({% image_buster /assets/img/ios/ios15-focus-settings.png %}){: style="float:right;max-width:25%;margin-left:15px;border:0"}

### Interruption Levels {#interruption-levels}

In iOS 15, push notifications can be sent with one of four interuption levels:

* **Passive** (new) - No sound, no vibration, no screen waking, no breakthrough of focus settings.

> * **Active** (default) - Allows sound, vibration, screen waking, no breakthrough of focus settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Active** (default) - Allows sound, vibration, screen waking, no breakthrough of focus settings.
```

> We're excited to offer support for this new features - stay tuned for more information to be announced near iOS 15's official release!

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Notification Summary {#notification-summary}

> In iOS 15, users will be able to choose certain times throughout the day to receive a summary of notifications. Notifications that don't require immediate attention (i.e. sent as "Passive", or while the user is in Focus Mode) will be grouped together to prevent constant interruptions throughout the day for notifications which don’t need immediate attention.

Reviewer: We may want to communicate that Notification Summary is a feature that needs to be opted in. 

FWIW, if it is turned ON and a notification is sent under "Active", that push will also be included in the Summary

Reviewer: We also say `don’t need immediate attention` twice in this sentence

> In iOS 15, users will be able to choose certain times throughout the day to receive a summary of notifications. Notifications that don't require immediate attention (i.e. sent as "Passive", or while the user is in Focus Mode) will be grouped together to prevent constant interruptions throughout the day for notifications which don’t need immediate attention.

Author: ```suggestion
In iOS 15, users can (optionally) choose certain times throughout the day to receive a summary of notifications. Notifications that don't require immediate attention (i.e. sent as "Passive", or while the user is in Focus Mode) will be grouped together to prevent constant interruptions throughout the day for notifications which don’t need immediate attention.
```

> For each notification you send, you'll soon be able to specify a "relevance score" to control which notification should appear at the top of the summary. Stay tuned for more information 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each notification you send, you'll soon be able to specify a "relevance score" to control which notification should appear at the top of the summary. Stay tuned for more information.
```

Also, we say "stay tuned" twice in a row in this section 👀

> For each notification you send, you'll soon be able to specify a "relevance score" to control which notification should appear at the top of the summary. Stay tuned for more information 

Author: ```suggestion
For each notification you send, you'll soon be able to specify a "relevance score" to control which notification should appear at the top of the summary.
```

For each notification you send, you'll soon be able to specify a "relevance score" to control which notification should appear at the top of the summary.

> We're excited to offer support for this new features - stay tuned for more information to be announced near iOS 15's official release!

Reviewer 2: `these new features`

Author: ```suggestion
We're excited to offer support for these new features - stay tuned for more information to be announced near iOS 15's official release!
```

## Location Buttons {#location-buttons}

iOS 15 introduces a new, convenient way for users to temporarily grant location access within an app. 

The new Location Button builds off of the existing "Allow Once" permission, but without having to repeatedly prompt users who click multiple times in the same session.

For more information, watch Apple's [Meet The Location Button](https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10102/) video from this year's WWDC conference.

#### Using Location Buttons with Braze

No additional integration is required when using Location Buttons with Braze. Your app should continue passing a user's location - once they've granted permission - as usual.

According to Apple, users who have already shared background location access - the "While Using App" option - will continue to grant that level of permission after they upgrade to iOS 15.

{% alert tip %}

> This feature gives you an extra chance to prompt users for permission! Users who have previously declined location permissions, prior to iOS 15, will be shown a prompt when clicking hte Location Button as an opportunity to reset the permission from the declined state one last time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature gives you an extra chance to prompt users for permission! Users who have previously declined location permissions, prior to iOS 15, will be shown a prompt when clicking the Location Button as an opportunity to reset the permission from the declined state one last time.
```

This is a pretty neat new feature that we might want to add to the section above to help convince them to implement it.

Author: good point, i'll move the alert up

{% endalert %}

### Apple Mail {#mail}

This year, Apple has annnounced many updates to Email tracking and privacy. For more information, please see: https://www.braze.com/resources/articles/9-ways-email-marketers-can-respond-to-apples-mail-privacy-protection-feature

### Safari IP Address Location

> In iOS 15, users will be able to configure Safari to either anonymize or generalize the location that can be  IP Addresses while browsing the web.

Reviewer 3: check wording at the end

Author: ```suggestion
In iOS 15, users will be able to configure Safari to either anonymize or generalize the location that can be determined from a user's IP Addresses while browsing the web.
```

> In iOS 15, users will be able to configure Safari to either anonymize or generalize the location that can be  IP Addresses while browsing the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In iOS 15, users will be able to configure Safari to either anonymize or generalize their location while browsing the web on Safari.
```
